SRS(Software requirement specification) document

Title- SRS document for hospital managenent system 

Team-
	Doctor, medical staff, Admin, Director, Pharma reprersentative, cleaning staff, maintainance staff, laboratory staff

Objective (Purpose) :
	System will present dashboard for admin,reception,doctor,maintenance department.

Scope :
	This system will allow hospital staff to manage patients info, staff duties 
	and shifts, maintain personal details and medical records of patients, staff
	availabilty and attendance, periodic maintainance activty of medical equipment.

Definations :
	HMS - hospital management system 
	OT - operation theater
	OPD - Out Patient Department
	IPD - In Patient Department
	ICU - intensive care unit

Functional Requirements :
	(Automated management system)
	(functionalities)

	Selected staff members will able to check availabilty of doctor and all other operational staff and equipments.

	Reception staff will be able to admit or register new paitent and fetch detail of old patients.	

	Admin staff will be able to access will able to assign duties to all staff(Except Admin) manage their attendance and leaves, add and remove staff members..
	and will have access to billing module, they will also manage salaries, details and bill payments. 
	Admin will assign roles repsonsibilities and access of application modules to the staff.

	Medical staff and doctors will have have access to medical records of patients.

	Maintainance staff will have access to only medical equipment information.

	Director will have access to every module of the application.

	Pharma representative will have access to prescriptions of the patients.

	Laboratary staff will have acess to test details and reports.
	
Non- Functional Requirements :

	Security:
		HMS will internally maintain secure communiction channel between Servers (App Servers, database Server)
		Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communcation.
		Use proper firewall to protect servers from out side fishing, vulnerable attacks.
	
	Reliability:
		The system will backup business data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational
		Continous updates are matained , continous Adminstration is done to keep system operational.

	Availability:
		uptime:   24* 7  available
	 	99.999%

	Maintainability:
		A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
		IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Adminstrative tools provided by Servers.
		Separate enviornment will be maintained for OSS for isolation in  production, testing, and development.

	Accessibility:
		Staff will be able to access their respective role data from the application after authentication.
		Director will be able to view daily, weekly, monthly, annual business data .

	Durability:
		System will maintain records of patients. staff  will be able to admit patient whenever needed.
        	 System will implement backup and recovery for hospital data.

	Modularity:
		HMS will be designed and developed using reusable, independent or dependent business senarios in the form of modules.
        	These modules will be loosely coupled and highly cohesive. (divide and Rule)
		System will contain patient deatil module, staff details module, maintainance module, ward managemnt module, pharma module
		lab management, roles management module.

	Safety:
		Bussiness data will be backed up periodically to ensure safty of data using increamental back up strategy.
		Role based security will be applied for Application data and operations accessibility.

















